>> Anjana Vakil: Let's see if this works.
>> Anjana Vakil: Okay,
so,
>> Anjana Vakil: Let's
try if we call imperative Fibonacci
with like a really high number.
Anybody have a favorite
multiple digit number?
No, okay, I'm going to give it
a bunch of randomly typed integers.
This is probably too big of a number.
Let's give it a three digit number,
okay, it's not doing anything to be.
>> Anjana Vakil: I don't know, 5, it's not
going to be but this should make it fail.
Okay, so now at least we know that it's
doing something, and let's find out.
Good, it's some ridiculously
long number here, cool.
Let's see if anything happens when
I do the recursive Fibonacci.
>> Anjana Vakil: Come on, Blaze work.
>> Anjana Vakil: Yeah, so it could be
that this is just not loading the test.
But I think it actually
might be running properly,
because this is what I wanted to happen.
There is a performance
implication to recursion,
and that is because in the way JavaScript
is implemented and many languages,
every time we make a new function call,
>> Anjana Vakil: We're
adding something to JavaScript's
memory of all of the functions
that we're calling at the moment
called the call snack.
So every time we call a function
anywhere in our program,
a new frame gets added to the call
stack in JavaScript memory,
and that means new memory is allocated.
And what happens, essentially,
is that JavaScript
recursive function builds up
a bunch of stack frames until
it gets to the base case that
pops out of the recursion and
starts returning from all
of those function calls.
And so, that means that it is
possible to have too much recursion.
We can crash the JavaScript engine.
We can crash the browser window.
You can do not attempt at home.
[LAUGH] But the other thing is that
we might get, even if we don't crash,
we might get a really slow value returned,
because we have to allocate all
this memory and
create all these new stack frames and
do all of the meta level stuff that
JavaScript is doing under the hood.
So often you will hear people say
that recursion is not performant,
and there is some truth to that.
And there are solutions to that as well,
which we won't super get into,
but there are some links
about in the epilogue.
Which, in this case, a way that
we can make a lot more performant
recursive functions is something
called tail recursion.
Which we're not going to define, but that
if the language implements a particular
optimization called tail call
optimization, and we've written our
recursive function in a particular style
that makes it a tail recursive function.
Then, under the hood, JavaScript can
basically move a lot faster through
all of that stuff because it doesn't need
to keep allocating new stack frames.
I'm not gonna say any more
about that today, but
I have a musical talk that I gave that's
on You tube that you can watch if you're
curious about what tail
call optimization is,
and especially if you like 90s Disney
musicals, because that is how it works.
So [COUGH] there are solutions
to these performance problems.
A lot of the time they rely on
the implementation of the language and
not like the features that we
would use as the programmer.
So we don't have control.
I mean, unless you're writing
a new browser engine or
a new JavaScript engine
inside of your browser.
We don't have control over the JavaScript
engine that we're using usually.
So we're gonna kinda only gloss
over the performance application,
but suffice it to say there are ways
to make sure that you don't get so
many call stack size exceeded errors or
too much recursion or what have you.